= Provisional

== Description

Provisional creates a new Rails project, using a standard Rails 2.3 application template, and checks it into a new SCM repository.

In the future, Provisional may be expanded to create production and staging environments, set up continuous integration, and automate other tasks that are usually performed at the beginning of a project.

== Requirements

Provisional requires Rails 2.3.0 or greater.

Provisional is only tested on Mac OS X. It should also work on Linux. It will not work on Windows.

There are two Viget-specific SCM options which will only work on the Viget internal network. Viget developers will also need to do some one-time setup to use these. Ask Mark for details.

== Installation

    sudo gem install provisional

== Usage

    Options:
                 --name, -n <s>:   Name of the project
                  --scm, -s <s>:   SCM to use (default: git)
                --rails, -r <s>:   Path to rails generator script (default: first occurrence of rails in $PATH)
             --template, -t <s>:   Rails template to use (default: viget)
               --github, -g <s>:   Github credential file (only needed for github scm; see below)
                  --version, -v:   Print version and exit
                     --help, -h:   Show this message

The SCM option can be one of the following ("project_name" refers to the value of the --name option):

* git: creates a git repository in the project_name directory
* svn: creates an svn repository in the project_name.repo directory, and checks it out into the project_name directory
* viget_git: creates a git repository in the project_name directory, creates git.lab.viget.com:/srv/git/project_name.git and adds it as origin/master (only works on the Viget internal network)
* viget_svn: creates an svn repository at svn://svn.lab.viget.com/project_name, and checks it out into the project_name directory (only works on the Viget internal network)
* github: creates a git repository in the project_name directory, creates project_name on Github using the specified credentials, and adds it as origin/master

The template option can be either a literal path to a template file, a URL for a template on a remote server, or the name of one of the templates found in lib/provisional/templates (without the .rb suffix.) The default viget template does the following:

* freezes rails from currently installed gems
* installs gems: mocha, factory_girl, shoulda
* installs plugins: hoptoad_notifier, jrails, model_generator_with_factories, viget_deployment, vl_cruise_control
* installs a .gitignore file, or sets svn properties, to ignore logs, temp files, sqlite3 databases, rcov reports, and database.yml
* generates Capistrano configuration with viget_deployment
* copies database.yml to database.yml-sample
* removes public/index.html, test/fixtures, prototype, and script.aculo.us
* creates a SCM repository and checks the application in (pushing to origin/master if the viget_git or github SCM is used)

== Github

To use Github, you will need to create a simple credential file in YAML format with your login and password on two separate lines, like this:

    login: labcoat
    token: f1a26b61a055a501cffda00000fc9782

You can find your token on your GitHub account page.

== License

Copyright (c) 2009 Mark Cornick of Viget Labs <mark@viget.com>

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
